developing-page (#746)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/network/developing.mdx

title: Developing
---

> Learn developer fundamentals and review the basics of a subgraph’s lifecycle. To start coding right away and build on The Graph, go to [Developer Quick Start](/quick-start/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn developer fundamentals and review the basics of a subgraph’s lifecycle. To start coding right away and build on The Graph, go to [Developer Quick Start](/quick-start/).
```

## Overview

As a developer, you need important data to build and power your dapps. Querying and indexing that blockchain data can be challenging, but The Graph provides a solution to this issue.

On The Graph, you can:

> 1.  Create, deploy and publish subgraphs to The Graph using **Graph CLI** and [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/).

Reviewer: I don't think the bold on "Graph CLI" is necessary. Would be nice if we could link to a page with more information on it (like a reference of all the commands), but that doesn't seem to exist. 🥲 cc @MichaelMacaulay 

So for now, I just suggest:
```suggestion
1.  Create, deploy and publish subgraphs to The Graph using Graph CLI and [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/).
```

2.  Use GraphQL to query live subgraphs and power dapps.

### What is GraphQL?

> - [GraphQL](/querying/graphql-api/)is the query language for APIs and a runtime for executing those queries with your existing data. The Graph uses GraphQL to query subgraphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GraphQL](/querying/graphql-api/) is a declarative query language for APIs and a runtime for executing those queries. The Graph uses GraphQL to query subgraphs, ensuring you receive exactly the data you need—nothing more, nothing less.
```
Or something like that, but basically I feel like we should at least mention the difference between GraphQL and other types of APIs (e.g. REST) in a very high-level way.

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure our [/querying/graphql-api](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/querying/graphql-api/) page is a good introduction to GraphQL itself, it's more about how The Graph uses it. I wonder if we should link to https://graphql.org instead.

Reviewer 2: we can link to https://graphql.org/learn/

### Developer Capabilities

- Query subgraphs built by other developers in [The Graph Network](https://thegraph.com/explorer) and integrate them into your own dapps.
- Create custom subgraphs to fulfill specific data needs, allowing improved scalability and flexibility for other developers.

> - Deploy, publish, and signal your subgraphs within The Graph Network.

Reviewer: Huge improvement!

## Subgraph Specifics

### What are subgraphs?

A subgraph is a custom API built on blockchain data. It extracts data from a blockchain, processes it, and stores it so that it can be easily queried via GraphQL.

A subgraph primarily consists of the following files:

- `subgraph.yaml`: this YAML file contains the [subgraph manifest](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/#the-subgraph-manifest)
- `subgraph.graphql`: this GraphQL schema defines what data is stored for your subgraph, and how to query it via [GraphQL](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/#the-graphql-schema)

> - `AssemblyScript Mappings`: [AssemblyScript](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) mappings translates data from the event data to the entities defined in your schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mapping.ts`: this [AssemblyScript](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) mappings file translates data from the event data to the entities defined in your schema
```

> - `AssemblyScript Mappings`: [AssemblyScript](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) mappings translates data from the event data to the entities defined in your schema

Reviewer: Should these bullet points have periods at the end of their sentence?

Learn the detailed specifics to [create a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/).

### Subgraph Lifecycle

> Here is a general view of a subgraph’s cycle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a general view of a subgraph’s lifecycle:
```

![Subgraph Lifecycle](/img/subgraph-lifecycle.png)

### Context for Subgraph Development

Great subgraphs start with a local development environment and unit tests. Developers can use `graph-cli,` `graph-ts,` and [Matchstick](/developing/unit-testing-framework/) to build robust subgraphs that deploy to The Graph Network.

> > Developers use [Graph CLI](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling/tree/main/packages/cli), a command line interface tool for building and deploying subgraphs in The Graph.

Reviewer: This was mentioned in the previous paragraph (spelled `graph-cli`; it's the same thing), so I would maybe merge those paragraphs?

## Deploy to Subgraph Studio

Once defined, a subgraph can be deployed to [Subgraph Studio](/deploying/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/). In Subgraph Studio, you can do the following:

- Use its staging environment to index the deployed subgraph and make it available for review.
- Verify that your subgraph doesn't have any indexing errors and works as expected.

## Publish to the Network

When you are happy with your subgraph, you can [publish it](/publishing/publishing-a-subgraph/) to The Graph Network.

> - To put your subgraph into production and ensure indexers can index it, you must publish it to The Graph Network.

Reviewer: These two sentences seem a bit repetitive. :P

  - This is an on-chain action, which registers the subgraph and makes it discoverable by Indexers.

> - Published subgraphs have a corresponding NFT, which is then easily transferable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Published subgraphs have a corresponding NFT, which defines the ownership of the subgraph. You can [transfer the subgraph's ownership](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph) by sending the NFT.
```

- Published subgraphs have associated metadata, which provides other network participants with useful context and information.

## Add Signal for Indexing

Published subgraphs are unlikely to be picked up by Indexers without signal. To encourage indexing you should add signal to your subgraph. Learn more about signaling and [curating](/network/curating/) on The Graph.

### What is signal?

- Signal is locked GRT associated with a given subgraph. It indicates to indexers that a given subgraph will receive query volume and it contributes to the indexing rewards available for processing it.
- Third party Curators may also signal on a given subgraph, if they deem the subgraph likely to drive query volume.

## Querying & Application Development

Once a subgraph has been processed by Indexers and is ready to [query](/querying/querying-the-graph/), developers can start using their subgraph in their dapps.

- When a query is made, The Graph Network selects an Indexer who has processed the subgraph to serve that query. Query fees are paid in GRT.
- Developers must generate an API key and fund it with GRT to make queries, which can be done in [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/).

> - Developers can set a maximum query fee, in order to control their costs, and limit their API key to a given subgraph or origin domain.

Reviewer: > Developers can set a maximum query fee, in order to control their costs

Are you sure?

Reviewer 3: Indeed, this feature has been deprecated. All queries have a fixed cost of $40 per million queries when the pass through E&N's gateway.

  - Subgraph Studio provides API key usage data.

> - Developers can express an Indexer preference to the gateway, for example preferring Indexers whose query response is faster, or whose data is most up to date. These controls are set in Subgraph Studio.

Reviewer: Are you sure about this as well? I know it used to be the case, but we've at least talked about removing this.

## Updating Subgraphs

To update your subgraph with bug fixes or new functionalities, initiate a transaction to point it to the new version. You can deploy new versions of your subgraphs to [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/) for development and testing.

- If you selected "auto-migrate" when you applied the signal, updating the subgraph will migrate any signal to the new version and incur a migration tax.
- This signal migration should prompt Indexers to start indexing the new version of the subgraph, so it should soon become available for querying.

## Deprecating & Transferring Subgraphs

> If you no longer need a published subgraph, you can deprecate or transfer a subgraph. Deprecating a subgraph returns any signaled GRT to [Curators](/network/curating/).
> 
> - To deprecate or transfer a subgraph, check out [this guide](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph/#deprecating-a-subgraph).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you no longer need a published subgraph, you can deprecate or transfer a subgraph. Deprecating a subgraph returns any signaled GRT to [Curators](/network/curating/). To deprecate or transfer a subgraph, check out [this guide](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph).
```

## Network Economics

As a developer, you can do any of the following:

- Lock up GRT to encourage indexing and querying subgraphs.

> - Burn GRT whenever a subgraph is updated.

Reviewer 4: +1 on removing this section

> - Burn GRT whenever a subgraph is updated.

Reviewer 2: Removing this section is even better! we can just focus on developers here and not confuse them with any network economics

title: Developing
---

> Learn developer fundamentals and review the basics of a subgraph’s lifecycle. To start coding right away and engage The Graph, go to the following: [Developer Quick Start](/quick-start/)

Reviewer: Also I would propose this change there:

```suggestion
Learn developer fundamentals and review the basics of a subgraph’s lifecycle. To start coding right away and engage The Graph, go to [Developer Quick Start](/quick-start/).
```

## Overview

As a developer, you need important data to build and power your dapps. Querying and indexing that blockchain data can be challenging, but The Graph provides a solution to this issue.

On The Graph, you can:

> 1.  Create, deploy and publish subgraphs to The Graph using **Graph CLI** and [Subgraph Studio](/https://thegraph.com/studio/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create, deploy and publish subgraphs to The Graph using **Graph CLI** and [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/).
```

> 2.  Use Graph node via **GraphQL** to query live subgraphs and power dapps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Use Graph Node via **GraphQL** to query live subgraphs and power dapps.
```
or `graph-node`? But looks like lots of pages call it "Graph Node" so I guess that's fine.

Reviewer: Wait also, kinda related to my point below: why are we referencing Graph Node here? I don't think subgraph developers need to know about it; they don't interact with Graph Node at all. They make GraphQL queries to an API endpoint which returns them data.

### What is GraphQL and Graph CLI?

- **GraphCLI** is a command line interface tool for building and deploying to The Graph.

> - **GraphQL** is the query language use for APIs and a runtime for executing those queries with your existing data. The Graph uses GraphQL to query subgraphs.

Reviewer: I wouldn't explain what GraphQL and Graph CLI are in the same breath, they are so different. GraphQL is a standard language used in countless APIs, while Graph CLI (two words) is very specific to The Graph. If this page is meant to be a friendly introduction to The Graph, I don't think I would mention the CLI at all at this point.

### Developer Capabilities

> - Engage with the entire subgraph lifecycle on the network, including publishing, querying and iterating on your custom subgraphs.
> - Specialize in subgraph development, building open APIs for others to utilize and build on.
> - Focus on application development by querying subgraphs deployed by other developers.

Reviewer: The verbs here sound a bit marketing-y haha, and the last two bullet points sound a bit mutually exclusive, while it's totally possible to develop dapps _and_ subgraphs. Here's a very blunt suggestion:

```suggestion
- Query subgraphs built by other developers in their own dapps.
- Build their own subgraphs for their custom data needs (which can then be used by others to build on).
- Deploy, publish, and signal on their subgraphs.
```

> ### Network Economics

Reviewer 2: imo network economics should be at the end of this page and move the subgraph specifics and lifecycle up here. 

Developers are the persona here and more important for them is to first build the subgraph out. The network economics is once they are deployed to the network.

### What are subgraphs?

> A subgraph is a custom API built on blockchain data. It extracts data from a blockchain, process it, and stores it so that it can be easily queried via GraphQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A subgraph is a custom API built on blockchain data. It extracts data from a blockchain, processes it, and stores it so that it can be easily queried via GraphQL.
```

A subgraph primarily consists of the following files:

> - `subgraph.yaml`: this YAML file contains the subgraph manifest
> - `subgraph.graphql`: this GraphQL schema defines what data is stored for your subgraph, and how to query it via GraphQL
> - `AssemblyScript Mappings`: [AssemblyScript](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) code that translates from the event data to the entities defined in your schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `subgraph.yaml`: the subgraph manifest, defines the data sources of interest, and how they should be processed
- `schema.graphql`: the subgraph schema, defines what data is stored in the subgraph, and how to query it via GraphQL
- `mapping.ts`: [AssemblyScript](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) mappings, translates data from the data sources to the entities defined in the schema
```

Learn the detailed specifics to [create a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/).

### Subgraph Lifecycle

Here is a general view of a subgraph’s cycle:

![Subgraph Lifecycle](/img/subgraph-lifecycle.png)

### Subgraph Development

Subgraph development starts with local development and staging.

- You can use the same local setup whether you're building for The Graph Network or a local Graph Node.
  - You can leverage `graph-cli` and `graph-ts` to build your subgraph.
- You are encouraged to use tools such as [Matchstick](https://github.com/LimeChain/matchstick) for unit testing to improve the robustness of your subgraphs.

> > Only subgraphs on [supported networks](/developing/supported-networks/) will earn indexing rewards. Subgraphs that fetch data from IPFS are also **not** eligible.

Reviewer: I think this section needs work if it's meant to be an introduction to subgraph development. It seems to contain random tidbits of information, and I have more questions than answers after reading it.

- What local setup?
- What's staging?
- Graph Node??? (I really don't think we should mention it on this page, but please get another opinion on that)
- How can I leverage `graph-cli` and `graph-ts`?
- Matchstick???
- Indexing rewards??? (not relevant for developers AFAIK)

## Deploy to Subgraph Studio

> Once defined, a subgraph can be built and deployed to [Subgraph Studio](/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/). In Subgraph Studio, you can do the following:

Reviewer: Is the subgraph not "built" at this point? (By build we mean "developed', which was the previous step, right?)

- Verify that your subgraph doesn't have any indexing errors and works as expected.

> - Use its staging environment to index the deployed subgraph and make it available for review.

Reviewer: I feel like the first part of the second bullet point is the same as the first bullet point, or should come before it. Basically, a developer should deploy to Studio for it to index their subgraph like indexers on the network would, to make sure that it works correctly before publishing it to the network.

> Learn how to [deploy subgraphs](/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/).

Reviewer: We already link to that just above, I would probably just keep one of the links.

Once defined, a subgraph can be built and deployed to [Subgraph Studio](/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/). In Subgraph Studio, you can do the following:

- Verify that your subgraph doesn't have any indexing errors and works as expected.
- Use its staging environment to index the deployed subgraph and make it available for review.

Learn how to [deploy subgraphs](/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/).

## Publish to the Network

When you are happy with your subgraph, you can publish it to The Graph Network.

> - This is an on-chain action, which registers the subgraph and makes it discoverable by Indexers.

Reviewer 2: maybe we should add a bullet point around the lines of this is what you should use in the production dapp

> Learn how to [publish a subgraph](/publishing/publishing-a-subgraph/).

Reviewer: This section is great!

Published subgraphs are unlikely to be picked up by Indexers without signal. To encourage indexing you should add signal to your subgraph.

**What is signal?**

- Signal is locked GRT associated with a given subgraph. It indicates to indexers that a given subgraph will receive query volume and it contributes to the indexing rewards available for processing it.
- Third party Curators may also signal on a given subgraph, if they deem the subgraph likely to drive query volume.

Learn more about signaling and [curating](/network/curating/) on The Graph.

## Querying & Application Development

> Once a subgraph has been processed by Indexers and is available for querying, you can start using your subgraph in your applications.

Reviewer: Should we say "dapps" instead of "applications"? (I'm not sure)

- You query subgraphs via a gateway, which forwards your queries to an Indexer who has processed the subgraph (paying query fees in GRT).

> - In order to make queries, you must generate an API key, which can be done in [Subgraph Studio](/https://thegraph.com/studio/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In order to make queries, you must generate an API key, which can be done in [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/).
```
Second time I see you make that typo, not sure where it's coming from :P

- This API key must be funded with GRT to pay query fees.
- You can set a maximum query fee to control their costs and limit your API key to a given subgraph or origin domain.
- Subgraph Studio provides you with data on your API key usage over time.
- You can express an Indexer preference to the gateway, such as preferring Indexers with fast query response or have up-to-date data. These controls are set in Subgraph Studio.

Learn more about [querying](/querying/querying-the-graph/).

## Updating Subgraphs

> To update your subgraph with bug fixes or new functionalities, initiate a transaction to point it to the new version. You can deploy new versions of your subgraphs to [Subgraph Studio](/https://thegraph.com/studio/) for development and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update your subgraph with bug fixes or new functionalities, initiate a transaction to point it to the new version. You can deploy new versions of your subgraphs to [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/) for development and testing.
```
Third time. 🙃

- If you selected "auto-migrate" when you applied the signal, updating the subgraph will migrate any signal to the new version and incur a migration tax.
- This signal migration should prompt Indexers to start indexing the new version of the subgraph, so it should soon become available for querying.

## Deprecating Subgraphs

> If you no longer need a published subgraph, then you will need to deprecate the subgraph.
> 
> - Deprecating a subgraph returns any signaled GRT to Curators.
> - To deprecate a subgraph, see the [deprecating a subgraph guide](/network/developing/deprecating-a-subgraph/).

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the use of a list here. This makes more sense to me:
```suggestion
If you no longer need a published subgraph, then you will need to deprecate the subgraph. Deprecating a subgraph returns any signaled GRT to Curators.

To deprecate a subgraph, see [Deprecating a subgraph](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph/#deprecating-a-subgraph).
```
(I also fixed the URL, I used the new one from #741 – is that OK?)

> ## Transferring Subgraph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Transferring Subgraphs
```

> You can transfer the ownership of a subgraph. To transfer subgraph ownership, see the [transfer subgraph guide](/transferring-subgraph-ownership/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To transfer the ownership of a subgraph, see [Transferring ownership of a subgraph](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph/#transferring-ownership-of-a-subgraph).
```
Still a bit too repetitive? Haha. Could also write "this guide" in the link.

> ### Network Economics

Reviewer: Not sure this should be an H3, is it a child of "Transferring Subgraphs"?

As a developer, you can do any of the following:

> - Lock up GRT to encourage indexing and the query subgraphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lock up GRT to encourage indexing and querying subgraphs.
```

## Deploy to Subgraph Studio

Once defined, a subgraph can be deployed to [Subgraph Studio](/deploying/deploying-a-subgraph-to-studio/). In Subgraph Studio, you can do the following:

- Use its staging environment to index the deployed subgraph and make it available for review.
- Verify that your subgraph doesn't have any indexing errors and works as expected.

## Publish to the Network

When you are happy with your subgraph, you can put it into production and [publish it](/publishing/publishing-a-subgraph/) to The Graph Network. This ensures Indexers can index it.

- This is an on-chain action, which registers the subgraph and makes it discoverable by Indexers.
- Published subgraphs have a corresponding NFT, which defines the ownership of the subgraph. You can [transfer the subgraph's ownership](/managing/transfer-and-deprecate-a-subgraph) by sending the NFT.
- Published subgraphs have associated metadata, which provides other network participants with useful context and information.

## Add Signal for Indexing

> Published subgraphs are unlikely to be picked up by Indexers without signal. To encourage indexing you should add signal to your subgraph. Learn more about signaling and [curating](/network/curating/) on The Graph.

Reviewer 4: To make this a bit more clear, should we consider replacing "signal" with "curation signal"?

Someone less familiar with The Graph might see "signal"and be confused. Whether we use one or the other, we should do so consistently throughout the page (and the rest of the docs).
